Day--1
=======
Front end
----------
1.the part of a website that the user interacts with directly is called frontend
2.in frontend it is also referred as client side of the appilication
3.it includes everything that the user experience directly
4.HTML, CSS, JS, Bootstrap are the languages used for frontend development.

Backend
-------
1.Backend is the server side of the website
2.it stores and arranges the data also make sure everything on the client side of the web site works fine.
3.in backend there are some languages like,java,python,php,.net...etc

API
----
It means application programming interface.which is the collection of communication protocols used by various programs to communicate between them.there

Storage Areas
--------------
Def: As part our applications we require to store data like customer information or billing information, calls information...etc

To store this data we required storage areas.

there are 2 types of storage areas such as

1.Temporary Storage Areas
2.Permenant Storage Areas

1.Temporary Storage Areas
-----------------------
these are the memory areas where the data will be stored temporarily.
eg. All JVM memory areas (like Heap areax ,stack,area,Method area,PC Regiters,Native Method stacks).
once JVM shutdown all these memory areas will cleared automatically.

2.Permenant Storage Areas
------------------------------
also known as persistent storage areas. Here we can store data permanently.
eg.Files systems ,databases ,data warehouse, bigdata...etc

File Management System
-----------------------
def: A file management system is system where data is stored in files on the operating systems, each application program must handle its own storage data,
retrieval and updating. File systems can be provided by the local operating system.
file systems are the best suitable for to store very less amount of information(like KB)
ex: A library management system storing books in separate text files likes,books.text,memebers.txt

Limitations of File Management System(FMS)
--------------------------------------------
1.Data Redundancy:-same data is stored in multiple files.
2.Data Inconsistency:-updates in one file may not be reflected in another.
3.poor Data Security:-no proper accessed control
4.Difficult Data Retrieval:-searching requires custom programs.
5.Integrity issues:-No constraints(eg: rollnumber uniqueness)
6.Scalability issues:-hard to manage as data grows

to overcome the above problems of file systems, we should go for database.

Database Management System
-----------------------------
def: A DBMS is a collection of programs that enables users to create,manage and manipulate databases.
it acts as an interface between user and database.


advantages
-----------
1.we can store huge amount of information in database
2.Query language support is available for every databases and hence we can perform database operations very easily.
3.to access data present in databases, compulsory username and password must be required. Hence data is secured.
4,.inside database data will be stored in the form of tables. While developing database table schemas, database admin follow various normalization 
techniques and we can implement various constraints like unique key constraint, primary key constraints,...etc which prevent data duplication.
hence there is no chance of data inconsistency problems

Limitations of Databases
------------------------
1.Databases can provide support for only structured data(tabular data or relational data)and cannot provide support for semi structured data
 like(xml files)and unstructured data(like video files, audio files, images..etc)

to overcome these problems we should go for advanced storage areas like bigdata, data, data warehouse. Etc.

what are the differences between File management system(FMS) and database management system(DBMS)
1.data is stored in separate files.
  data is stored in structured database.
2.high data redundancy (duplicate data)
  reduces data redundancy
3.diificult to maintain and update 
  easy to maintain and update
4.security is limited
  provides strong security mechanisms.
5.data sharing is difficult
  multiple user can access data simultaneously
6.no relationship between files.
  supports relationship between tables.
7.Backup and recovery are difficult
  provides backup and recovery features
8.data inconsistency many occur anomalies
  maintains data consistency and integrity.
9.suitable for small applications
  suitable for small, medium, large applications.

Q:what is the difference between  a file system and a DBMS?(IQ)
A file system stores data in separate files and may lead to data redundancy, and security issues, a DBMS stores data in structured manner using tables,
reduces redundancy, provides security, supports multiple users and ensures data consistency as integrity.

Q:what is data, field,record, database?







